- [Instructor] Git's branching model
is one of the most powerful available
amongst version control systems.
Its flexibility allows teams to easily create
various types of branches that establish workflows.
In this lesson, we'll review different types of branches
so that your team can use them when establishing a workflow
for committing into a central repository.
The concept behind branching is pretty simple.
We need to store source code related to some code change
that we'll make in our code base separately
from the existing code base.
Using Git branches, we can quickly fork the code base
to work on a new feature
while maintaining the original source code
in a separate line of code.
So, this allows us to experiment on a new feature
in a separate area.
Depending on our workflow,
we may need to leverage several types of branches.
Let's talk about those now.
First, let's discuss long-running branches.
Long-running branches always remain open,
storing the history of a particular line of development.
Often, a master or trunk branch holds the code
for the current official release of the project.
Another common long-running branch is the develop branch
which allows for integration of changes in progress.
So, if we have a bunch of feature branches
which we're about ready to discuss,
they would be integrated
into our long-running develop branch.
Most workflows typically incorporate
one or both of these branches.
As I mentioned, feature branches,
they're a line of code where source code changes are stored
for a particular system feature under development.
These branches are really short lived and they are closed
once the feature is completed.
Once it's complete,
then it gets merged into that develop branch
as we talked about.
Hotfix branches are created to address a specific issue
occurring in the current production environment.
So, we have this problem
that we need to get fixed right away, so what do we do?
Well, we branch off the master to address the issue
and then we merge it right back into master.
Hotfixes are then required to be merged
into any of our development branches
so that they contain a copy of the fix.
So, these hotfix branches are only for emergencies
and they're really short lived.
It's important that your team understands
these types of branches
because we're going to be leveraging them
as we build out these workflows
for committing changes into our central repository.